Add PX4 ROS 2 service servers docs (#3596)
PX4/PX4-user_guide: en/ros2/user_guide.md

:::

## PX4 ROS 2 Service Servers

<Badge type="tip" text="PX4 v1.15" />

PX4 uXRCE-DDS middleware supports [ROS 2 services](https://docs.ros.org/en/jazzy/Concepts/Basic/About-Services.html).
Services are remote procedure calls, from one node to another, that return a result.

A service server is the entity that will accept a remote procedure request, perform some computation on it, and return the result.

> They simplify communication between ROS 2 nodes and PX4 by encapsulating and associating the request and response topics, and ensuring that replies are only returned to the specific requesting user.

Reviewer: @beniaminopozzan I guess by encapsulate I mean "serve the same purpose as". The service is actually defined in terms of the command and command ack messages, which is what I was getting at - need to get a consistent vocabulary in my head. Anyway, I'm trying to capture the value of this service concept, which as I see it is handling the command/response and filtering for you. Is this better (if not, can you counter-propose an alternative)?

[for example, where I write "by associating the request and response", I'd like to append "topics", but I think that is wrong. Who knows].

```suggestion
They simplify communication between ROS 2 nodes and PX4 by associating the request and response, and ensuring that replies are only returned to the specific requesting user.
```

> They simplify communication between ROS 2 nodes and PX4 by encapsulating and associating the request and response topics, and ensuring that replies are only returned to the specific requesting user.

Reviewer: @beniaminopozzan I need to merge this so we don't have to start again when sources move into PX4-Autopilot. So I am accepting my change here and in https://github.com/PX4/PX4-user_guide/pull/3596/files#r1990496995

Hope you can do a follow up review!

> This is much easier that publishing the request, subscribing to the reply, and filtering out any unwanted responses.

Reviewer: I pulled this out of your Vehicle command docs below, because I presume it is true in all cases. Removed text this comes from was:

> This is an helpful alternative to having to create a topic publisher for `/fmu/in/vehicle_command` and a topic subscriber for `/fmu/out/vehicle_command_ack`, and then having to filter out unwanted `VehicleCommandAck` messages.

The service servers that are built into the PX4 [uxrce_dds_client](../modules/modules_system.md#uxrce-dds-client) module include:

> - `/fmu/vehicle_command` (definition: [`px4_msgs::srv::VehicleCommand`](https://github.com/PX4/px4_msgs/blob/main/srv/VehicleCommand.srv).)

Reviewer: 1. What is the terminology/name for `/fmu/vehicle_command`? I.e. `/fmu/out/` is a publication, and `fmu/in` is a subscription that you an publish to. Is it just a "server"? Is it a "topic" or a "message"?

2. What is the name for `px4_msgs::srv::VehicleCommand` ? YOu called it a service Type - where does "Type" come from? I have called it a definition here, because that's what is linked.

[Ultimately I'm asking if this line is OK!)

3. `VehicleCommand.srv` is a service server message definition. Should we be auto-generating docs for this, as we do for normal uorb messages?

Reviewer: Thank you very much for this. I'm going to email myself with a link and think about it a bit more.

  This service can be called by ROS 2 applications to send PX4 [VehicleCommand](../msg_docs/VehicleCommand.md) uORB messages and receive PX4 [VehicleCommandAck](../msg_docs/VehicleCommandAck.md) uORB messages in response.

Details and specific examples are provided in the following sections.

### VehicleCommand service

> This can be used to send commands to the vehicle, such as "take off", "land", change mode, and "orbit", and receive a response.

Reviewer: I thought we should say what this is for, as readers might not understand what vehicle commands are.

> The service is available under `/fmu/vehicle_command`, which can be changed through custom namespaces just like the other PX4 topics.

Reviewer: "which can be changed through custom namespaces just like the other PX4 topics." - I don't know what that means. Can you link it.

Author: More info added in 890a999c250424e52a535a953195e834717c583a

The service type is defined in [`px4_msgs::srv::VehicleCommand`](https://github.com/PX4/px4_msgs/blob/main/srv/VehicleCommand.srv) as:

```txt
VehicleCommand request
---
VehicleCommandAck reply
```

Users can make service requests by sending [VehicleCommand](../msg_docs/VehicleCommand.md) messages, and receive a [VehicleCommandAck](../msg_docs/VehicleCommandAck.md) message in response.
The service ensures that only the `VehicleCommandAck` reply generated for the specific request made by the user is sent back.

> 

Reviewer: Not every command can be sent - in fact most can't. Should/can we list the subset that will work?

Author: The ROS 2 node that is making the service request is treated as an internal PX4 module (unless https://github.com/PX4/px4_msgs/blob/912244a6e3a64324f01086569ac9805df854f5d9/msg/VehicleCommand.msg#L195 is set to true). Therefore the user can use any command.

As far as I know, the only commands that has no effect are the ones that deal with PX4 parameters (you cannot set, get, list) parameters.

#### VehicleCommand Service Offboard Control Example

A complete _offboard control_ example using the VehicleCommand service is provided by the [offboard_control_srv](https://github.com/PX4/px4_ros_com/blob/main/src/examples/offboard/offboard_control_srv.cpp) node available in the `px4_ros_com` package.

The example closely follows the _offboard control_ example described in [ROS 2 Offboard Control Example](../ros2/offboard_control.md) but uses the `VehicleCommand` service to request mode changes, vehicle arming and vehicle disarming.

> Like for any other ROS 2 service client, the ROS 2 application needs to declare a service client of type `px4_msgs::srv::VehicleCommand`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First the ROS 2 application needs to declare a service client, just like for any other ROS2 service client.
In this case the the client has type: `px4_msgs::srv::VehicleCommand`:
```

Reviewer: ^^^^ assumption is `rclcpp::Client()` is the "normal way", so we should spell it out.

Reviewer: This was resolved, but "thumbsed up". So I am unresolving and merging.

```cpp
rclcpp::Client<px4_msgs::srv::VehicleCommand>::SharedPtr vehicle_command_client_;
```

> and then initialize it to the right ROS 2 service.
> As the application assumes the standard PX4 namespace is used, this results in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then the client is initialized to the right ROS 2 service (`/fmu/vehicle_command`).
As the application assumes the standard PX4 namespace is used, the code to do this looks like this:
```

```cpp
vehicle_command_client_{this->create_client<px4_msgs::srv::VehicleCommand>("/fmu/vehicle_command")}
```

> After that, the client can be used to send any vehicle command request.

Reviewer: The code seems to also require that you first wait for the service:

```
while (!vehicle_command_client_->wait_for_service(1s)) {
			if (!rclcpp::ok()) {
```

Where does `wait_for_service()` come from?

Reviewer: Shouldn't we say that? Note that I have no idea where this method is defined (?) I assume `wait_for_service()` is some kind of standard interface/API? Or is it our own interface that hides some other magic?

Assuming it is standard, you might do something like this:

```suggestion
::: info
It is good practice to make sure the that the server server is ready to accept requests before sending them. You can use `wait_for_service()` to check if the server is ready.
:::

After that, the client can be used to send any vehicle command request.
```

:::

> ## PX4 ROS 2 Service Servers

Reviewer: OK, so I have modified this to have the structure
- Intro 
  - what a ros 2 service is and why is it cool
  - List of services in PX4
 - VehicleCommand service
   - Example
 - More services as they come along ....
 
 This is where we centralise service docs.
